Then I'd have to go to class, so I'd drop it in this
container. Well, when the class was over and I went
to the next class, I don't know how much space there
might have been between classes, I'd get that
cigar out and light it and smoke it until I got to the
next class. And sometimes I'd still be smoking
that cigar, that same cigar at 12 o'clock, going to
that 12 o'clock class. It was pretty strong by that
time. But I was a regular cigar smoker.
But, of course, they smoked too many because I
didn't have too much money. Well, you'd make one of
them last all day then. Most of the day. What about
chewing? Did a lot of the boys chew? Yeah. Yeah,
they did. But they had a hard time. I think this will
be an interesting incident. One of the classes
that I enjoyed going to was Dr. Mark Francis'
class. And sitting on this
particular classroom was a circular classroom
with elevated seats. And a boy from Miles Canale,
he's down there, in the country where the Germans
lived, you know. And so we decided we'd play the
trick on old Miles Canale, because he'd shoot in
tobacco classes. spit it out to one side, you know.
And we didn't pay attention to it particularly,
despite the fact we didn't like it. But Dr. Francis
did.
And so we decided we'd fill every seat except one
and leave one for Miles Connolly on the front row in
front of Dr. Francis. And so when class started,
and old Miles started chewing on this plug at the
back up. He didn't have any place to spit. And he
looked over to the right and looked over to the
left, and finally had to get rid of it somehow. So
just whether it was right or left, I can't
remember. But anyhow. Dr. Francis just got up and
just like that went out of the room. He was
wondering what was happening. And he came back
with a five-gallon can, empty can, large can, and
set it in front of Miles Canale and said, chew, and
chew your head off. And that big can, you know, he
That's the only experience we had about chewing
tobacco in class.
You mentioned Dr. Francis, and I think you said you
were very fond of him. Was he one of your favorite
teachers? Yes, he was. Who else were among your
favorites? John C. Burns, I guess, was my
favorite, top favorite. And then Dr. Francis. I
thought an awful lot of Dr. Francis because I had a
lot of humor. And he was just a good teacher.
Any others that you can think of? Well, of course,
I... I think of some others that I didn't like so
well. Did
you have any interesting experiences in
chemistry? I've talked to a number of people who
weren't fond of the chemistry department. Dr.
Blake? No, I didn't have any trouble. I was good in
chemistry, you see. And I helped my roommate get
through A&M by tutoring in chemistry. He wasn't so
hot in the sciences at all. And then, of course,
then I had Dr. Ball in Putney. And I didn't
particularly like Dr. Ball, but I didn't hate him,
because he was always talking about when I was in
Germany, we did so and so and so and so. Now, in
English, I forget just now who we had in English,
but apparently
he didn't make any favorable impression on me. The
only two was Burns and Francis, you see.
One thing that interested me, and I went through
the yearbook, 1915 when you graduated and I jotted
down the organizations that you belonged to and
the things you did and I guess I sort of had one kind
of picture of you and I was interviewing some of
your other colleagues and they referred to you as
Runt Stangle. Right. And how do you
reconcile your size with your great
participation in intramural athletics. You
played a lot of football and baseball, I see. Yeah,
I did. I
don't know, but I
played football the first year on the IK team. I was
too busy and finally decided I was just too busy to
continue, so I quit. So I didn't finish my season as
a
freshman. As a sophomore, I played with I.K. I
believe, let's see, in 13 you were on the C.D. That
would have been your junior year, wouldn't it?
Yeah, we had a championship team in 13. In 14, I was
on the CD team. And I was captain, I think, as well as
I remember, of the CD team.
You also made the all-company football team as
quarterback. Yeah. Was this a T-formation
quarterback? No, it's a little silver football.
That's what it is. You got a silver football for
being on the all-company team. That was kind of the
all-stars of the intramural. But according to
your book, you were quarterback of the team.
Right. Did you then play T-formation?
That's where normally the quarterback played.
No, we played what we'd call a regular formation,
mostly. Now, this regular formation, you had a
halfback here and a halfback here and a fullback
here and a quarterback here in front. Right behind
the center. Yeah. And he'd pass this halfback or
this halfback or this fullback would go through.
And there were times when he had a formation that we
called eye formation. And it just lined back
straight up, one behind the other, you see. That
is, behind the line, you see. Today they call the
eye formation when the running backs line up
behind the quarterback in an eye.
There were a number of other things I wanted to ask
you about. You seem to have been a member of a number
of organizations. One was the 466 Club. Do you
remember that at all? No. I was not a member of the
466 Club. I was president of the Agricultural
Scientific Association. I don't know whether you
got that down there or not. Well, yeah, there's the
president of the SAA, the Scientific Agriculture
Association. Yeah. Do you have any recollection
of what the 466 Club was? No, I don't. Okay. What
about the veterans of the Lost Cause?
No, I didn't, because, let's see,
was that after the war or before the war? Well, I
don't know. There were a number of people who were
there around 14, 15, and 16 who were veterans of the
lost cause. And I have no idea what that was. Was
that possibly an organization of senior
privates? Now, senior privates. Now, I'm
familiar with the senior privates. I was a member
of the senior privates, yes. Now, the senior
privates was just you might say a renegade outfit,
you know, they didn't give them what they did, you
know. Weren't not particularly wild about the
military. And of course they were the ones that
were not able to participate in the regular
military events because of their jobs. For
instance, I had to be at the horse barn at 5 o'clock
in the morning and then run over to the mess hall and
get breakfast to get there to an 8 o'clock crash,
you know. Then I'd have to get there in the evening.
We're talking
about the senior privates. There's people who had
jobs and therefore couldn't really meet the
regular military formations. For instance, we'd
drill between 12 and 1.
Eat a quick bite, you know, and get out there and
drill. Or sometimes not eat at all, you see. And
then, of course, we didn't have any—well, we had
uniforms as seniors, definitely designated as
seniors.
Militarily, we didn't rate.
But I was recommended for an officer's rank by a lot
of my friends. But the man who was commandant named
Brown didn't like me. I've heard some people who
had run in with Levi G. Brown. Did they? Well, I had.
I wanted to go someplace. And he said, no, you can't
go. And I argued with him. There wasn't any reason
why I couldn't go. And I went. anyhow, you see, and
that is the state affair. That sort of puts you on
his blacklist. Yeah, I was on it, definitely on his
blacklist, because when he came, when he was
checking those who they were going to recommend
for various officers for the following year, came
across my name, mark right through it.
Okay. I believe you also were in the Ross
Volunteers. Right. So I was good enough to be in the
Ross Volunteers, but not good enough to be an
officer.
There were also mentioned in the yearbook that you
were in the Newman Club. Was that the Catholic
men's organization as it is today? And also the
Press Club. Yes. I was an athletic sports writer,
so I was on the press club, you see. You wrote about
the college athletics? Right. For what, the
battalion or for other papers as well? Mostly for
the battalion.
Okay, and then you were also on the stock judging
team for what, how many years? One or two? No, I was
only one because the second year we didn't have a
contest. I don't know whether you know the
background of that or not. No. But I was a member of
the junior livestock judging team. And as a member
of the junior livestock judging team, I ranked for
high place. on that team was a fellow named Scott
from McKinney, Texas. He's dead, he's dead and
gone now. And then that is the junior, junior
livestock judging team. Now this junior
livestock judging team competed in Fort Worth
against teams from Oklahoma and Arkansas. And we
won the contest, you see. And I, and I ran, and I, And
I didn't rank first, so I tied for first and split
the money. There was $75 that was first. Well,
since I wasn't first, we split $75 and $50. And so
that helped me a whole lot, because I sure needed
the money.
Then we were getting ready for the international
glass dog judging team. developed
foot and mouth
disease
in Mexico. And they wanted to keep it out of the
United States. So they didn't take any chances.
rid of any animal that had been exposed to any
animals near the Mexico border, you see. And so
they called off the International Livestock
Judging Team just before to have been held. So I
didn't get to go to Chicago to the International
Livestock Judging Contest. And
then would you be eligible for the stock judging
team as a senior, or did they not have a team? No. We
were through, you see. When we competed as a junior
and then getting ready to compete as a senior, when
that year—well, we were already packed ready to
go. So we didn't go, so we were through. So I have, of
course, the medal that they awarded to the senior
members of the senior
life. When you graduated in the spring of 1915, did
you have a job all lined up by the time you
graduated, or did you have to hunt for one after
that? No. I had a scholarship.
I had an opportunity to apply at the University of
Missouri for an agricultural scholarship. And so
I received a $200 agricultural
scholarship. And so in September I went to
Columbia, Missouri. do graduate work, and that's
what I did my first year.
Of course, I'll show you prices have soared. I
roomed with a fellow named Darnell, who had been
and then came back as an instructor in the
dairy department.
We ate in a place nearby. Our room was $10 a month for
the two of us. And our meals were $5 for the week.
All you could eat. $5 except Sunday. You didn't get
a Sunday evening meal.
And then that is it. And now when I graduated there
in June, and my first job was an instructor in
animal husbandry at Texas A&M that John Burns gave
me following a statement made by Dr. Bezal who was
visiting on the University of Missouri campus.
campus when he asked me the question, Stangle, how
would you like coming back to A&M? I said, I sure
would like it. And that's what I did. So you came
back there then in the fall of 16. 16. And you stayed
at A&M until when? 25. 25.
all the time in animal husbandry. Did you have any
particularly outstanding students that you
could remember from that time period? At A&M? At
A&M?
Yeah, I guess
it was T. Burns, who was an outstanding student,
Debbie T. Burns, He's owned in Laredo or down there
somewhere. I forget now just where it is.
K.J. Edwards was an outstanding student. But of
course the most outstanding student was my
roommate,
John Bugbee. from Clarendon, Texas. He was, let's
see, what are our grades? Anyhow, he was
distinguished, that's right, distinguished
every semester.
And then in, say, 25 you took the job as head of the
animal husbandry department at Texas Tech. That
was the first year they had classes here then. Was
that
quite a step forward for you to move up as a
department head even though it was a new school?
Yeah, it was. And of course the person that was
responsible for my coming here and taking the job
was Dr. Francis. And that's the reason I rate him so
high,
because I didn't know what to do. See, I was offered
this position here, and I had to make a decision
about coming here. I'd visited here, and so
I finally went to No. Proud of that. The entire
freshman class, not freshman, junior class,
animal husbandry, that is junior animal
husbandry students, came to my home and were on my
porch begging me not to go to A&M. I mean to Texas
Tech, to stay at A&M. So it was a hard decision to
make. and I had to make it by the next day.
So I'd go to this fellow and that fellow there,
asking him what to do. So it was Dr. Francis that
made the decision for me.
When I asked him the question, should I stay here or
should I go to Texas Tech, He hesitated as he did in
class many times, scratched his head, and then
raised, I'd go.
And he says, if after 10 years you have only one bull
and a barbed wire fence around that bull, You know
you've done it. And I figured that is a challenge.
So I came here. And of course, it was a challenge,
because I didn't have a thing, except
tumbleweeds, goat heads,
and blue weeds, and so on, things like that. It was
really hard going. And at what point was it that you
were then elevated to dean of agriculture? 1945.
So 20 years as head of the department and then up to
dean. And you retired then in what? 1958. 1958 you
retired. And you've still been quite busy since
then, though, haven't you? Yes, I have. Just the
last few years, I've kind of slowed down, but I've
been busy. I took a big part in getting this cattle
feeding started here. I made four tours, planned
four tours. By cattle feeding, you mean the
feedlot operations? Feedlot operations, yeah.
When did you do that? That was about early 1960s.
And I believe you've been, what, chairman of the
board of directors of the National Farm Life
Insurance Company. Yes. Were you involved with
that organization before you retired? Yes. In
fact, I'm still with it, you see. Now,
see, we started that in 1946. So you were then one of
the founders of the? of this Farm Life Insurance
Company? National Farm Life Insurance. National
Farm Life. And is that associated with the
Agricultural Workers Mutual Auto Insurance?
Yes.
In other words, one helps the other. In other
words, a fellow will take out a policy and he may
need some insurance. We find out that they needed
some insurance, so we sell them some life
insurance. So the two companies work nicely
together. There are separate companies, though.
Separate companies, yes. In the same building, of
course.
Do the agents for the company sell both kinds of
insurance, or do you have separate agents for it?
No. We don't. That's one thing. We do not have any
auto agents. Uh-huh. Just like... In other words,
if you want auto insurance with us, you have to
apply. Do you have to be a farm worker to get auto
insurance with you? You've got to be an
agricultural worker, not a farm worker. Yeah,
agricultural worker. I'm sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Uh,
you have to be an agricultural worker to have the
farm life insurance, too? No. No? Anybody can do
it? Anybody. Were the two companies founded at the
same time? No, at the, uh, order one year later.
Uh-huh. And you're still then associated with
both of them? Yeah, I am. I'll
let you have these. OK. Now, you can have all of
them. I've got more of them. All right, fine.
There was a couple of incidents that occurred
while you were there, either probably while you
were on the faculty that I thought I might ask you
about. One occurred in early 1917, I believe, this
would probably have been during your first year of
teaching, when a group of boys from A&M went over to
Austin and branded the steer. Yeah. Do you have any
recollection of that incident? Yeah, but I wasn't
a part of it. I realize you weren't a part of it. You
were on the faculty then.
Then about... Three years later, as much as we can
understand, that steer was butchered over in
Austin, and they had a barbecue, and some people
from A&M were invited. We have had indication that
this was the case from an unidentified clipping
and from an invitation, but I haven't been able to
find anybody who actually remembers that there
actually was a barbecue. Well, I don't remember a
barbecue either. Mm-hmm. But you remember the
branding incident?
Yes. My assistant has talked with Hans Rohde, who
wielded the branding on it. Yeah, Hans Rohde, a
great baseball player.